README.md, before:

[![pytest](https://github.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/workflows/pytest/badge.svg)](https://github.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/actions)

# Popularity of static site generators

Static site generators are tools to create blogs, landing pages and documentation.

This repo contains Github data (stars, forks, issues, create and last modified dates) for 30+ open source static site generators (SSG) and code used to create the dataset. 

## Try live

[![Open in Streamlit](https://static.streamlit.io/badges/streamlit_badge_black_white.svg)][st]
[![Demo in Google Colab](https://img.shields.io/badge/Colab-Open-orange)][colab]

[Streamlit app][st] lays out a data story about SSGs with several visualisations. 
[Colab][colab] is a try and see playground with some code for charts.

[st]: https://share.streamlit.io/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main
[colab]: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1041e6yOyVRty5lirnbZOAU1zJ3TN77ta

## Dataset

[![Download CSV](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-CSV-brightgreen)][url]
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4429834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4429834)

[url]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv

The stable URL for dataset is <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv>

To download:

```python
import pandas as pd
url = ("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/"
       "epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv")
df = pd.read_csv(url, parse_dates=["created", "modified"])
```

Sample:

|                                                                  |   '000 stars | Language   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|------------|
| [hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/)                        |         49.3 | go         |
| [gatsby](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/)                    |         48.6 | js         |
| [jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/)                      |         42.0 | ruby       |
| [hexo](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/)                          |         32.0 | js         |
| [vuepress](https://github.com/vuejs/vuepress/)                   |         18.2 | js         |
| [mkdocs](https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs/)                      |         11.3 | python     |
| [pelican](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican/)                |         10.1 | python     |
| [octopress](https://github.com/imathis/octopress/)               |          9.4 | ruby       |
| [eleventy](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy/)                    |          8.2 | js         |
| [metalsmith](https://github.com/segmentio/metalsmith/)           |          7.6 | js         |
| [gridea](https://github.com/getgridea/gridea/)                   |          6.8 | js         |
| [middleman](https://github.com/middleman/middleman/)             |          6.7 | ruby       |
| [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/)                   |          5.6 | rust       |
| [zola](https://github.com/getzola/zola/)                         |          4.8 | rust       |
| [sphinx](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/)                  |          3.7 | python     |
| [wintersmith](https://github.com/jnordberg/wintersmith/)         |          3.5 | js         |
| [lektor](https://github.com/lektor/lektor/)                      |          3.4 | python     |
| [Cactus](https://github.com/eudicots/Cactus/)                    |          3.4 | python     |
| [Publish](https://github.com/JohnSundell/Publish/)               |          3.1 | swift      |
| [bookdown](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/)                 |          2.3 | r          |
| [hakyll](https://github.com/jaspervdj/hakyll/)                   |          2.3 | haskell    |
| [nikola](https://github.com/getnikola/nikola/)                   |          2.1 | python     |
| [fastpages](https://github.com/fastai/fastpages/)                |          2.1 | python     |
| [jupyter-book](https://github.com/executablebooks/jupyter-book/) |          2.0 | python     |
| [scully](https://github.com/scullyio/scully/)                    |          2.0 | js         |
| [nanoc](https://github.com/nanoc/nanoc/)                         |          1.9 | ruby       |
| [ihp](https://github.com/digitallyinduced/ihp/)                  |          1.7 | haskell    |
| [cobalt.rs](https://github.com/cobalt-org/cobalt.rs/)            |          0.9 | rust       |
| [Franklin.jl](https://github.com/tlienart/Franklin.jl/)          |          0.4 | julia      |
| [bridgetown](https://github.com/bridgetownrb/bridgetown/)        |          0.3 | ruby       |

## How to update dataset

You will need a Github token to retreive stats for many repos. Write out `.config.env` 
near to where you run your Python code: 

```toml
USER=...
TOKEN=...
```

`example/update.py` should update `data/ssg.csv`:

```
poetry run python example/update.py  
```

## Citation

Evgeny Pogrebnyak. (2021). Github data for static site generators (SSG) popularity (Version 0.1.2) [Data set]. Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4429834

Current version is Version 0.2.1 (June 2022).

Commit message:

how to make a new token

README.md, after:

[![pytest](https://github.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/workflows/pytest/badge.svg)](https://github.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/actions)

# Popularity of static site generators

Static site generators are tools to create blogs, landing pages and documentation.

This repo contains Github data (stars, forks, issues, create and last modified dates) for 30+ open source static site generators (SSG) and code used to create the dataset. 

## Try live

[![Open in Streamlit](https://static.streamlit.io/badges/streamlit_badge_black_white.svg)][st]
[![Demo in Google Colab](https://img.shields.io/badge/Colab-Open-orange)][colab]

[Streamlit app][st] lays out a data story about SSGs with several visualisations. 
[Colab][colab] is a try and see playground with some code for charts.

[st]: https://share.streamlit.io/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main
[colab]: https://colab.research.google.com/drive/1041e6yOyVRty5lirnbZOAU1zJ3TN77ta

## Dataset

[![Download CSV](https://img.shields.io/badge/download-CSV-brightgreen)][url]
[![DOI](https://zenodo.org/badge/DOI/10.5281/zenodo.4429834.svg)](https://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4429834)

[url]: https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv

The stable URL for dataset is <https://raw.githubusercontent.com/epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv>

To download:

```python
import pandas as pd
url = ("https://raw.githubusercontent.com/"
       "epogrebnyak/ssg-dataset/main/data/ssg.csv")
df = pd.read_csv(url, parse_dates=["created", "modified"])
```

Sample:

|                                                                  |   '000 stars | Language   |
|------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------|------------|
| [hugo](https://github.com/gohugoio/hugo/)                        |         49.3 | go         |
| [gatsby](https://github.com/gatsbyjs/gatsby/)                    |         48.6 | js         |
| [jekyll](https://github.com/jekyll/jekyll/)                      |         42.0 | ruby       |
| [hexo](https://github.com/hexojs/hexo/)                          |         32.0 | js         |
| [vuepress](https://github.com/vuejs/vuepress/)                   |         18.2 | js         |
| [mkdocs](https://github.com/mkdocs/mkdocs/)                      |         11.3 | python     |
| [pelican](https://github.com/getpelican/pelican/)                |         10.1 | python     |
| [octopress](https://github.com/imathis/octopress/)               |          9.4 | ruby       |
| [eleventy](https://github.com/11ty/eleventy/)                    |          8.2 | js         |
| [metalsmith](https://github.com/segmentio/metalsmith/)           |          7.6 | js         |
| [gridea](https://github.com/getgridea/gridea/)                   |          6.8 | js         |
| [middleman](https://github.com/middleman/middleman/)             |          6.7 | ruby       |
| [mdBook](https://github.com/rust-lang/mdBook/)                   |          5.6 | rust       |
| [zola](https://github.com/getzola/zola/)                         |          4.8 | rust       |
| [sphinx](https://github.com/sphinx-doc/sphinx/)                  |          3.7 | python     |
| [wintersmith](https://github.com/jnordberg/wintersmith/)         |          3.5 | js         |
| [lektor](https://github.com/lektor/lektor/)                      |          3.4 | python     |
| [Cactus](https://github.com/eudicots/Cactus/)                    |          3.4 | python     |
| [Publish](https://github.com/JohnSundell/Publish/)               |          3.1 | swift      |
| [bookdown](https://github.com/rstudio/bookdown/)                 |          2.3 | r          |
| [hakyll](https://github.com/jaspervdj/hakyll/)                   |          2.3 | haskell    |
| [nikola](https://github.com/getnikola/nikola/)                   |          2.1 | python     |
| [fastpages](https://github.com/fastai/fastpages/)                |          2.1 | python     |
| [jupyter-book](https://github.com/executablebooks/jupyter-book/) |          2.0 | python     |
| [scully](https://github.com/scullyio/scully/)                    |          2.0 | js         |
| [nanoc](https://github.com/nanoc/nanoc/)                         |          1.9 | ruby       |
| [ihp](https://github.com/digitallyinduced/ihp/)                  |          1.7 | haskell    |
| [cobalt.rs](https://github.com/cobalt-org/cobalt.rs/)            |          0.9 | rust       |
| [Franklin.jl](https://github.com/tlienart/Franklin.jl/)          |          0.4 | julia      |
| [bridgetown](https://github.com/bridgetownrb/bridgetown/)        |          0.3 | ruby       |

## How to update dataset

### Get a Github token

You will need a Github token to retreive stats for many repos. Write out `.config.env` 
near to where you run your Python code: 

```toml
GH_USER=...
GH_TOKEN=...
```

Your Github personal token is [here](https://github.com/settings/tokens/) and 
token documentation is [here](https://docs.github.com/en/authentication/keeping-your-account-and-data-secure/creating-a-personal-access-token).

### Update CSV file

`example/update.py` should update `data/ssg.csv`:

```
poetry run python example/update.py  
```

## Citation

Evgeny Pogrebnyak. (2021). Github data for static site generators (SSG) popularity (Version 0.1.2) [Data set]. Zenodo. http://doi.org/10.5281/zenodo.4429834

Current version is Version 0.2.1 (June 2022).
